# Comment in r/BrainFog

Date: 2018-07-11 02:21:23
Author: Mister_Cactus
Subreddit: BrainFog
Score: 1
Permalink: https://reddit.com/r/BrainFog/comments/8vegwt/significant_cognitive_decline_any_thoughts/e25v8u7/

## Content

Thanks. Working through the degree has certainly been tougher than anything I ever even thought I could handle. Granted, I went from almost entirely A’s at a tough school to just passing my classes and not understanding anything while putting in probably twice the amount of work.

There were quite a few times I considered dropping, but ultimately I decided that dropping would be much worse. The days when I don’t have any work seem to be the worst. Struggling to understand lectures and homeworks is difficult, but having the same level of difficulty when trying to watch youtube or read an interesting book is even worse - I can’t even enjoy my free time. At the same time, staying in college has at least let me maintain some semblance of normality. I still get to see my friends, take classes, and at least experience what feels like 10% of a college experience.

I think it’s important to hold on to everything we can for as long as we can. Every year I’ve improved as a person: learning new things, meeting new people, etc. Last year, I ceased to tackle anything new, and simply held on to what I had built up over the years. I’m certainly not progressing anytime soon, but I refuse to digress if possible. (Granted, I’m likely not at the point you are. Soon, it might be impossible to even pass my classes. At that point, it seems like the no-knowledge lifestyle is the only option as you say.)

I would definitely encourage you to talk to your friends about it, if you’re still somewhat close with them. I also used excuses for why my grades started tanking - I used to just tell my friends that GPA didn’t matter much for CS so I didn’t care. By hiding the symptoms though, I stopped myself from getting advice from them, which has definitely turned out to be helpful. At the same, hiding your symptoms only makes it harder for people to believe once you finally reveal them.

I’m glad you’ve finally been able to find some explanations! Definitely keep us updated if you discover anything. What do you think you’re doing differently moving forward compared to the last few years?

Funny how you mention strategy games. Last year when it all started, I used to play chess daily against my roommate. I used it as a metric to see how the brain fog was improving. Eventually, I just stopped since I could never remember any strategy. He would use the same moves against me day after day and I just wouldn’t remember them.

I think it helps to latch onto something for motivation. My choice to study CS and Bio wasn’t completely random - after spending so much time with brain fog, I’ve come to realize how little is understood about it, and I’d love to change that. Once I get past this, I hope to at least help a few of the people on this sub.


---
